Operator: Welcome to the CSB Business Meeting. My name is Paulette, and I will be your operator for
today’s call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-andanswer session. Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Hillary Cohen, Communications Manager. Ms. Cohen, you may begin.
Hillary Cohen: Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. Welcome to our first public business meeting for
this calendar year. Leading today’s meeting is going to be our Chairperson, Vanessa Allen Sutherland,
and she has opening remarks. She’ll take us through the agenda and we’ll go to public comment near
the end of the meeting. If you have any trouble hearing on the line, please let us know, as we will try to
speak up. Thank you.
Vanessa Allen Sutherland: Thanks, Hillary. Today, we are meeting in open session, as required by the
Government in the Sunshine Act, to discuss operations and activities of the CSB. As Hillary mentioned,
I’m Vanessa Allen Sutherland, the Chairperson of the Board. Joining me today are Members, Manny
Confirmation Number: 41776698
January 20, 2016 at 1:01 pm Eastern Time
Page 2
Ehrlich, Kristen Kulinowski, and Rick Engler. Also joining as our acting general counsel, Kara Wenzel,
and members of the staff. Thank you to everyone who’s participating by phone, as well.
We will have public comment at the end, and we’ll make sure that as you’re listening on the phone, we
give you instructions as to how to participate remotely.
The CSB is an independent, non-regulatory, federal agency that investigates major chemical accidents at
fixed facilities. The investigations examine all aspects of chemical accidents, including physical causes
related to equipment design, as well as inadequacies in regulations, industry standards, and safety
management systems. Ultimately, we issue safety recommendations, which are designed to prevent
similar incidents or accidents in the future.
The purpose of today’s meeting is to provide an opportunity for the Board to discuss ongoing investigation
and organizational activities, including the status of the CSB’s Action Plan, and a very brief discussion
about deployment. At this time, please allow me to go over the afternoon’s agenda, and please hold any
questions. I will, in a moment, ask you to turn your cell phones off and put them on vibrate.
First, the Board will give a brief update on the CSB’s open investigations. We will then provide an update
on IG issues, Inspector General. We will have an update on finance and budget issues, followed by a
very brief organizational update, and lastly, recommendation status changes. We will then discuss our
annual Action Plan and provide a short discussion on the CSB deployment process, and then you will
have an opportunity for public comment or questions, and an overview of our next public meeting.
If you wish to make a public comment, there was a sign-up sheet at the very first table or front table.
Please feel free to write your name on that. For those who are on the phone, you may submit comments
by e-mailing to meeting@csb.gov, and all comments will be included in the official record.
Confirmation Number: 41776698
January 20, 2016 at 1:01 pm Eastern Time
Page 3
So, as I mentioned, before we begin, please turn your phones on silent. Just a quick moment for safety
information: The doors in which you came for this conference room, and the glass doors in front, are the
exits, so those are to your right. Restrooms are through the front doors, just adjacent to the elevators;
make a left. So with that, we will officially commence the agenda.
February 11th
, which is just shy of a month from now, will be my six-month anniversary at the Board, and
let me start by saying that it has been very busy, but an honor to work with such a dedicated staff, and to
meet a variety of different stakeholders in the process. In this short period of time, I’ve chaired two field
hearings, three business meetings, and met with many of the stakeholders; probably many of you are
also on the phone, as well as in the room. Last week, we held a meeting in Torrance, California, to
release preliminary findings into the ExxonMobil fire and explosion that occurred last February—
February 2015.
Today, we are in DC for one of our regularly scheduled business meetings, and next week we will be in
Waco, Texas, to release our final investigation report into the fatal 2013 ammonium nitrate fire and
explosion at the West Fertilizer facility. To put it simply, it has been very busy.
I have been listening closely to stakeholders and staff and hearing their concerns. The Board Members
have been equally participatory and active in getting up to speed and learning all the ongoing activities
and operations that are underway at the CSB, and that I’ll talk about in a moment. [I’ve] thought a lot
about what it might take to make the agency more successful and productive.
Over the next few months, I and my fellow Board Members’ staff will be working to: prioritize
investigations; potentially commence studies; review, assess, and close recommendations; and conduct
additional outreach activities, those from our Most Wanted List, and additional issues of concern, or areas
Confirmation Number: 41776698
January 20, 2016 at 1:01 pm Eastern Time
Page 4
of concern. My goal is to focus on reasonable, broad scale, chemical safety change while using our
resources in the most efficient manner possible. All the while, I want to continue to pursue organizational
excellence to ensure we have consistent policies, current documents, [and] updated procedures, as well
as clear roles and responsibilities. I think this will enable the staff to spend more time on mission-critical
work, knowing that much of the operational underlying work and documents are current and up-to-date.
We will be finalizing our Action Plan to ensure that deadlines are met and the goals remain on track,
aligned with our Strategic Plan, which, I think I mentioned at the last meeting, expired in 2016, at the end
of 2016. By using and clearly defining both accident assessments and full-scale deployments, I also
believe that we can make the most of our staff and our resources by trying to assess any emerging issues
in the state of chemical accidents today. CSB products are very powerful. We’ve heard from many of
you about videos in particular, but certainly, they are a powerful tool as we, as a Board, continue to
ensure that they get into the hands of those who need them, and that they are ultimately refreshed, and
we use them as reminders of what incidents have happened in the past. 